Ideas on handling classes, subclasses, and possibly jobs or career paths.

     Classes and subclasses are interesting, if only for the fact that they give players a tree to work with 
for character development. Some players prefer that structure, but I think how we approach this depends largely 
on how many differing abilities players will have, as well as how we handle race and magic in general. At any
rate, it's something I'd like to think about. 

1. Approach classes as you would college degrees: Each player would have a Major and Minor class, which might
   actually eliminate the traditional tree structure, but at the same time, open up the chances for some 
   interesting combinations that might be appealing to players. We basically come up with a list of all 
   possible "professions" or whatever we want to label them, and allow players to chose one to be their main
   focus with the other being an augmenting focus (the way a nurse might specialize in pediatrics, for example). 
   We'd have to have a fairly sizable range of options, without it being too daunting of a list to choose from.
   Optionally, players would be able to later change these classes, the way one might change their college major,
   but we can't make that too convenient to do. If it's too easy to change classes, there's really no point
   in having them separated, since anyone would be able to be anything whenever they want. Some restrictions
   should be imposed, but not enough to discourage the option entirely. 
   
2. General Career Paths: this would be more of a broad-spectrum way to handle classes, as opposed to the more
   specified one above. We create a list of generic classes (Medicine, Business, Public Service, Construction,
   etc), and allow players to customize their character within that class however they see fit by picking and 
   choosing abilities and bonuses available to each one, eliminating the need for subclasses without sacrificing
   the inventiveness of players, and retaining a bit of traditaional-RPG taste for players who enjoy that. 
   
3. No Classes: This would be a totally new approach, for me, so I'd really have to sit down and wrap my head
   around it. It might also take away an easy method of determining bonuses, and what not, but the amount of 
   player freedom would be pretty massive. Players could, in a way, invent their own classes using the abilities
   we offer to everyone, with obvious limitations on how they can aquire those abilities (skill points?). The trick
   would be to balance things in such a way that certain combinations would not end up being over-powered, 
   or favored in some other way in order to encourage variety. 
   
   [Blecki] I don't have anything to add to this one just yet, I'm afraid. I just want to say that I favor
   option 3 and hope you explore it further. Remember that nothing has to be balanced up front. Things can
   and will be tweaked after we launch.
