Ideas for combat and entities

-Combat Mechanic-

1. Autokill combat: a single kill command, combat flows with the same attack unless interrupted with a different
   command. This is the way many of the MUDs I've played work, but not everyone likes it. If we want our game
   to be less combat focused, this might be a good option for it's simplicity. 
   
2. Turn combat: I'm not sure of the proper term for this one, but the MUD that springs to mind is Dragonball.
   Basically you issue a command for the specific attack you want to use, X-amount of ticks go, and the attack 
   is executed, while your opponent is doing more or less the same thing. This option is much more tactical, and
   tends to (in my opinion) make PvP more interesting, even though I generally shy away from PvP. This style is 
   also open to use of scripting.
   


-Entities/Mobs-

1. If we're strictly PvP (which I vote we avoid), then this is not really an issue unless we want to make denizen
   NPCs killable. 
   
2. All mobs are human, or existing real creature: this makes some sense within the fantastique genre, since a 
   bunch of mythical creatures running around would probably make it harder for us to validate the idea that
   magic is rationally deniable. That isn't to say that these human/animal mobs couldn't still be imbued with 
   some magical elements, but from a story perspective, it's less obvious if we keep it subtle. For example, we
   could encounter a aggressive thug who might have some small mental attacks, or a tiger that can cause very
   brief shock or paralysis. Both abilities could be explained by the effects of fear, even though the player
   knows what's really going on, but for the sake of preserving a world that denies magic. 
   
3. Mixed mobs: Humans, real and invented creatures are all in the mix, but with the invented creatures being 
   confined to very specific instances or appearing very sparingly. Either way would be interesting, and able 
   to be worked into the story more or less the same way people think they've seen Bigfoot or chupacabras, or 
   the plethora of other xenobiological creatures from various cultures. 
