Ideas for handling player death

1. The extreme end of the deja vu experience might be exploited here. The PC should not remember dying, or 
   recognize that they did, but upon "waking" in whatever designated area we decide on, the text would 
   point to the PC having just had a hallucanatory experience in the sense of "I did this/I've been here
   before." This could play into the plausible deniabiliy of magic. The PC has been revived through magical
   means, but brushes it off as a fluke of memory. 
   
   [Blecki] I don't like this option for the simple fact that the player is going to know damn well that they
   died. Whatever explanation is offered from the character's perspective is going to be ignored. Especially
   if we have pvp - no player is going to brag that they caused someone to hallucinate. 

2. PC only go unconscious, but do not actually "die." Loss of experience or some equipment would still apply,
   but the tone of the text would be handled to show the player was KO'ed. The PC's return could be handled 
   one of two ways, in this case. The first being that the PC "wakes" where they fell, aggro has been dropped,
   and some sort of protection applied so they player can retreat from the area. The second, which is slightly 
   more involved, but slightly more plausible on the magic-denial side, is that each town has a hospital where
   players wake. After getting KO'ed, their transport to the hospital could be explained as a friendly passerby
   contacting help while the player was uncosncious. 
   
   [Blecki] I like the latter more than the former. Waking where they fell won't work at all with pvp. The
   aggressor will just wait around to kill again.
   
3. PC's all automatically have a device (issued by game world law) that contacts help when the PC's vitals
   fail. Think of the Pipboys in the Fallout series, which could be used to handle other information such as
   stats/scoring, as well as communications. Again, we'd ideally have to have hospitals or clinics in each 
   town so that players have somewhere believable to wake in, but knowing they were KO'ed and revived. This
   idea has a slightly more sci-fi feel, but with the advances in modern smartwatches, I think it holds a lot 
   of value and saves us from having to use magical means of reviving/retreaving players. 
   
   [Blecki] I think this one and the latter half of #2 are very similar. All that's different is the explanation
   of how they were found. These are very workable, and are pretty much how every mud ever works. You just
   respawn. It scores points for player familiarity, but it's not terribly interesting.
   
[Blecki]
4. Death is permanent. 

   I designed a mud a few years ago that unfortunately never saw the light of day where players and their 
   characters were very distinct entities. When they died, that character was lost forever - but they could 
   start over with a new one and keep any abilities that weren't physical and any equipment that they had 
   locked up somewhere or they were able to recover. I explained it by saying that the player was a pattern
   of brain waves that could be copied into a new host easily. Players could pick from all sorts of bodies 
   when they respawned - granted they could afford them. So there were lots of ordinary people, but also 
   cats and gorillas and robots and the odd hulluvoo* or two.
   
   I don't think that would work here at all. I've seen other games try and do it with the new character
   being a blood relative of the former, but that quickly becomes absurd. I'm playing as Sally, and I die,
   and now I am Sally's daughter. Except I've been playing Sally for a while and I know damn well she was 
   never pregnant. Also Sally is 22 and her daughter is 18. What? This won't work either.
   
   But there might be something that does work. It could be tied into the world's magic. It could also
   work if character progression is based on knowledge, not on raising stats.
   
   
   
   
* A hulluvoo is a super intelligent shade of the color blue. This is, perhaps, the only interactive medium 
   where such a thing is possible.
