Idea for Smartwatches as means of score keeping, stat tracking, and communication

     As smart watches become more advanced and popular, they offer up a nifty way to handle a few things in-game.
Smart phones are also an option, but for the sake of convenience with the "real world" feel of the game, the idea
behind using an augmented version of real smartwatches offers information-at-a-glance concepts, as well as a 
possible tie-in to one of the player death ideas, since it is worn on body, rather than kept in a pocket or bag. 
I feel it also serves nicely to remove the ambigiuity of where these common information tools in MUDs are coming 
from. 

1. Keeping track of vitals: The most obvious convenience this could offer is displaying HP, MP and Endurance. It's
   up to us to decide if we want to implement this to be displayed automtically with the command line, or have the 
   player enter a command to see this data. Some muds avoid using numbers to display this, instead favoring descriptive
   phrases like "bleeding awfully" or "unscathed," but if we want to use numbers, it would not be hard at all to 
   explain why a PC might know his "health number" with modern medical diagnostics and the way that computers
   parse digital packets of data, etc. 
   
2. Communications: the mail system could easily be explained with this and modern email/sms messaging. Not really 
   much to explain on this idea, except that it gives us a mechanism to attribute to chat channels instead of 
   having to suspend disbelief that a player can somehow communicate with someone across the world, or shout so loud
   that the whole realm can hear it. The difference being is that we create the command to reflect that. For example,
   a player wants to speak in the OOC channel, so they would use 'swooc,' or maybe 'swgen' for the general chat
   channel, etc. 
   
3. Managing funds: rather than having to constantly return to banks (though we can leave the option there for players
   who want a more traditional feel), they can manage payments and transfers digitally via their smartwatch. We could
   assume, should we need to, that this is done with QR codes or some other currently accepted method. Just a matter of 
   deciding on what, and how it reflects our choice of currency.
   
4. Information tracking: Again, with a smartwatch command, we could call up a sort of "player card" that shows full
   stats, including base and vital, as well as skills known, and other info like bonuses and buffs. Pretty much 
   anything player-data related could go on this card. 
   
5. Quest logging: This is something a few MUDs I've played on have gotten horribly wrong. In some, there isn't even 
   a way to confirm which quest you are active on, or get the information you recieved when you started it. This is a 
   pain for players who can't always play for hours, and must break in the middle of a quest only to return, having 
   forgotten what they were doing. Each accepted quest data would be logged on a PC's smartwatch, and is able to 
   be recalled at their convenience.
   
   
